# Bokeh Tutorial
This section of the tutorial covers the ```bokeh.plotting``` interface. This interface is a "mid-level" interface, and the main idea can be described by the statement:

**Starting from simple default figures (with sensible default tools, grids and axes), add markers and other shapes whose visual attributes are tied to directly data.**

We will see that it is possible to customize and change all of the defaults, but having them means that it is possible to get up and running very quickly.  

## Imports and Setup
When using the ```bokeh.plotting``` interface, there are a few common imports:

- Use the ```figure``` function to create new plot objects to work with.
- Call the functions ```output_file``` or ```output_notebook``` (possibly in combination) to tell Bokeh how to display or save output.
- Execute ```show``` and ```save``` to display or save plots and layouts.  

``` Python
import numpy as np # we will use this later, so import it now

from bokeh.io import output_notebook, show
from bokeh.plotting import figure
```  

In this case, we are in the Jupyter notebook, so we will call ```output_notebook()``` below. We only need to call this once, 
and all subsequent calls to ```show()``` will display inline in the notebook.  

``` Python
output_notebook()
```  

If everything is working, you should see a Bokeh logo and a message like _"BokehJS 1.4.0 successfully loaded."_ as the output.

This notebook uses Bokeh sample data. If you haven't downloaded it already, this can be downloaded by running the following:  

``` Python
import bokeh.sampledata
bokeh.sampledata.download()
```  

## Scatter Plots  
Bokeh can draw many types of visual shapes (called _glyphs_), including lines, bars, patches, hex tiles and more. 
One of the most common visualization tasks is to draw a scatter plot of data using small _marker_ glyphs to represent each point.

In this section you will see how to use Bokeh's various marker glyphs to create simple scatter plots.

The basic outline is:

- create a blank figure: ```p = figure(...)```
- call a glyph method such as ```p.circle``` on the figure
- ```show``` the figure
Execute the cell below to create a small scatter plot with circle glyphs:  

``` Python
# create a new plot with default tools, using figure
p = figure(plot_width=400, plot_height=400)

# add a circle renderer with x and y coordinates, size, color, and alpha
p.circle([1, 2, 3, 4, 5], [6, 7, 2, 4, 5], size=15, line_color="navy", fill_color="orange", fill_alpha=0.5)

show(p) # show the results
```  

In the output above, you can see the effect of the different options for ```line_color```, ```fill_alpha```, etc. 
Try changing some of these values and re-executing the cell to update the plot.

All Bokeh scatter markers accept ```size``` (measured in screen space units) as a property. 
Circles in particular also have ```radius``` (measured in "data" space units).  

To scatter square markers instead of circles, you can use the ```square``` method on figures.  
``` Python
# create a new plot using figure
p = figure(plot_width=400, plot_height=400)

# add a square renderer with a size, color, alpha, and sizes
p.square([1, 2, 3, 4, 5], [6, 7, 2, 4, 5], size=[10, 15, 20, 25, 30], color="firebrick", alpha=0.6)

show(p) # show the results
```  

Note that in the example above, we are also specifying different sizes for each individual marker. 
**In general, all of a glyph's properties can be "vectorized" in this fashion.**
Also note that we have passed ```color``` as a shorthand to set both the line and fill colors easily at the same time. 
This is a convenience specific to ```bokeh.plotting```.  

There are many marker types available in Bokeh, you can see details and example plots for all of them in the reference guide by clicking on entries in the list below:  

- asterisk()
- circle()
- circle_cross()
- circle_x()
- cross()
- diamond()
- diamond_cross()
- hex()
- inverted_triangle()
- square()
- square_cross()
- square_x()
- triangle()
- x()  

## Line Plots  
Another common visualization task is the drawing of line plots. This can be accomplished in Bokeh by calling the ```p.line(...)``` glyph method as shown below.

``` Python
# create a new plot (with a title) using figure
p = figure(plot_width=400, plot_height=400, title="My Line Plot")

# add a line renderer
p.line([1, 2, 3, 4, 5], [6, 7, 2, 4, 5], line_width=2)

show(p) # show the results
```  

In addition to ```line_width```, there are other options such as ```line_color``` or ```line_dash``` that can be set. 
Try setting some of the other properties of line and re-running the cell above.
